[toc]

# Type Manipulation(类型操作)

## keyof

The `keyof` operator takes an object type and produces a string or numeric literal union of its keys. 

The following type P is the same type as “x” | “y”:

```ts
type Point = { x: number; y: number };
type P = keyof Point;
```



If the type has a `string` or `number` index signature, `keyof` will return those types instead:

```ts
type Arrayish = { [n: number]: unknown };
type A = keyof Arrayish;
    // means
type A = number
 
type Mapish = { [k: string]: boolean };
type M = keyof Mapish;
    // means
type M = string | number
```

Note that in this example, `M` is `string | number` — this is because **JavaScript object keys are always coerced(强制转换) to a string**, so `obj[0]` is always the same as `obj["0"]`.

`keyof` types become **especially useful** when combined with mapped types, which we’ll learn more about later.



## typeof

JavaScript already has a `typeof` operator you can use in an *expression* context:



TypeScript adds a `typeof` operator you can use in a *type* context to refer to the *type* of a variable or property:

```ts
let s = "hello";
let n: typeof s;
   // means
let n: string
```

This isn’t very useful **for basic types**, but combined with other type operators, you can use `typeof` to conveniently express many patterns. 

对于基础类型并没有什么用, 因为本已经定义过这些类型了.

但是对于与其他类型运算符结合使用时非常有用, 可以使用`typeof'方便地表达许多模式。

For an example, let’s start by looking at the predefined type `ReturnType`. 

It takes a *function type* and produces its return type:

```ts
type Predicate = (x: unknown) => boolean;
type K = ReturnType<Predicate>;
    // means
type K = boolean
```



If we try to use `ReturnType` on a function name, we see an instructive **error**:

```ts
function f() {
  return { x: 10, y: 3 };
}
type P = ReturnType<f>;
// 'f' refers to a value, but is being used as a type here. Did you mean 'typeof f'?'f' refers to a value, but is being used as a type here. Did you mean 'typeof f'?
```

Remember that ***values* and *types* aren’t the same thing**.  (区分值与类型)

To refer to the *type* that the *value `f`* has, we use `typeof`:

```ts
function f() {  return { x: 10, y: 3 };}
type P = ReturnType<typeof f>;    
        // means            
type P = {
    x: number;
    y: number;
}
```



### Limitations

TypeScript intentionally limits the sorts of expressions you can use `typeof` on.

Specifically, it’s only legal to use `typeof` on identifiers (i.e. variable names) or their properties. 

Typescript有意限制您可以使用'typeof'的表达式。

具体而言，在标识符（即变量名）或其属性上使用'typeof'是合法的。

This helps avoid the confusing trap of writing code you think is executing, but isn’t:

```ts
// Meant to use = ReturnType<typeof msgbox>
let shouldContinue: typeof msgbox("Are you sure you want to continue?");
// ',' expected.
```